hey folks this is cherry I'm here with
the local and offline collaboration
special interest group meeting for
August it's August 21st and we have a
lot of folks with us today a lot of new
faces so I think the first thing we
should do is just do a quick go around
I'll call people out based on where they
are on my little Brady Bunch view here
and just tell us in like 30 seconds why
you're interested in this like offline
first or local first or local
collaboration or however you think about
this topic like if there's a cool
project you're working on in the space
or whatever just super quick and then
we'll get going with our the rest of our
agenda so Yanis your first Sun on my
screen hello hello hello I'm Eunice I my
research labs and also academic at
University College London and yeah Ben I
have a long-standing interest in of LAN
communications the lay tolaram networks
we've done quite a bit of work on mobile
only communications in the past so yeah
looking to see what these will be cool
awesome I'm Terry I currently work at
protocol labs but I used to work at IBM
and I was working with cloud it which is
like CouchDB as a service which is great
for mobile sync and offline use cases
and while I was there I was one of the
founding and sort of co-organizers of
offline camp which is all about offline
first my buddy Dwayne here is coming and
lease has been and is coming again all
the cool kids come on cam that's not for
this part of the agenda um yeah so I'm
I'm really interested in in offline
first for those like as a developer just
like having and as a user like my stuff
should just work that would be lovely
so that's my big interest and then I was
introduced to D Web through the offline
first group and that's I ended up at my
labs and I built proto school which is
an educational like tutorials and stuff
on D web stuff
Duane you're next on my screen yeah you
bet so I'm in Salt Lake City Utah at a
place called Medici ventures which is a
sort of like a research group of small
companies that are trying to do
blockchain for all sorts of governance
problems and I'm in the land governance
section so we're we're actually working
in countries like Zambia and Rwanda
right now to try to build fault-tolerant
and more
I guess corruption and tolerant land
administration systems so one of the
things I'm interested in is all of the
all these technologies that are related
to keeping keeping software working when
somebody is trying to use it in the
field in a situation where electricity
might be on and off or in our case
sometimes the the servers themselves can
be based on the faces I'm not the only
one who lost you in for a second
but the servers can also be down I think
is what you were saying yeah that sounds
like an awesome use case like really
compelling Thank You Nico
everyone I am Nico I am part of the
Association for progressive
communications ABC and we have been
supporting community networks
initiatives that would be communities in
rural underserved countries in rural and
reserve situations in in general the
global South that decide to provide
themselves with connectivity by the
arrow means with their own hats so from
their personal communications we are
supporting these kind of endeavors and
in that support we are working with
different actors and one of the actors
are the developers that that doesn't
have the chance many times to get in
touch with users that in particular the
decentralize web technologies are mostly
suited for so one of the things that we
are doing now is to help people like you
like all of you to be in touch with
users from the global South that might
be needing or willing to work on the
centralized technologies for their
specific use cases in those areas
oh I saw that you added a note that you
want to talk more about that later so we
can do that if we have time today or we
can do it on our next fall whichever
whichever works out Dominic
hey bro I work for protocol labs my name
is Dominic specifically I work on Co
ipfs and I'm always interested in seeing
how we can bring this to new platforms
and have kind of like compatibility with
all these systems that people are
working and building on so that we can
kind of enable these I'll find first
kind of applications and stuff and I
particularly come into these calls to
see what everyone else is doing and what
problems they may be having so that's it
for me yeah it's really cool to see all
the different use cases Jessica hey
everybody my name is Jessica the cat
that just mauled me before departing is
named Luna she is so off line first she
didn't want to be in the room I came to
say hi to everybody today on because I
do work on I confess that protocol and
specifically I work Rotarians and others
in a group that's focusing on our
documentation effort right now and we've
hit a point where we were hoping that we
could chat with some folks who were
passionate about the offline first
movement to which I can get into a
little bit later so so I'm asking for a
little bit of a conversational favor
with all y'all but I don't want to jump
the agenda so it's good to see so many
familiar and new faces here awesome
Justin
yes Dylan so yes yeah now I'm on unit
I'm Justin mayor I am big fan of ipfs I
made a little thing called gathering
it's offline first or as best as it's
offline first can be with ipfs right now
on on browsers offline first is just the
way that shrink should be and still I'm
here to see all the cool development
that is happening and and it's exciting
to get updates here and yeah it's fun to
be part of this yeah and you can see a
demo of the gathering that Justin did on
this fall last month on our YouTube
playlist if you'd like to Molly
calling in from Berlin I think
hey guys I'm Molly I work on my PFS and
and I used to lead this I guess sig
monthly meeting before Terry took it
over Thank You Terry and yeah and I got
super excited about offline space
because I was working on ed tech tools
and got really annoyed that teachers and
students couldn't use applications in
their classroom without having to ship
all of this data that they really just
meant to share between students and the
teacher and you know use all of the
stuff within their own classroom but
they had to have really great internet
connections which many schools do not
have in order to rely on all of these
useful pieces of technology that many of
us rely on and enterprise and elsewhere
so that's what that me super jazzed I'd
love to talk to you more about that
sometime only I work on a side project
that's related hey you know where you're
both gonna be off I camp perfect volley
of my listen people who are coming all
right
I see Dietrich smiling because I know he
knows I want him to come so far no
commitment Arkady
hello so I'm Arkady I work on
collaborations at protocol and a PFS
side and I guess on a personal level
like growing up in post-soviet Russia
was out of having like an online and
then being in New York is the subway and
all this is being nature a lot it's a
lot of personal experience where's the
server not really being something that
you can count on but also like got it
more seriously I'm very interested in
community networks as well as things
like making IOT not be an utter disaster
so awesome teacher hi everybody my name
is Dietrich working also on my PFS
protocol labs very interested in using
the browser to the last mile solution
and letting people into the map
unlocking some of these offline use
cases I have a totally different
question on the agenda today get to the
moon
Oh Nick
phoning in you are muted Nick hello I'm
in Namibia sorry if I sounded a bit
sleepy I am in computer interaction
professor in half my life and the rest
of my life I work with indigenous groups
and different parts of Africa in rural
areas and loss of focus on community
networks but I'm calling in today at the
prompts of nikkor we've just started a
project where we're using scuttlebutt in
the Kalahari with a group of people
called the sand who are indigenous who
allegedly the first people and quite
believably so and yeah they're very
disconnected but they have incredible
culture egalitarian culture and amazing
oral store so we are trying to use
scuttlebutt for a offline audio way of
connecting many villages together that
sounds really interesting thanks
Jonathan yeah I work for protocol labs
I'm on the fall coin team I'm just
curious I saw your signal a lobby a
channel so I thought it's awesome glad
you're here
all right who's going by HSN in there
zoom profile
your unmute HSN mystery caller all right
HSN is on mute so I'm going to go to
Louie
Louie you want to unmute and introduce
yourself
Quebec City Museum the mobile app in
fact sorry was trying to hide from the
camera I'm just about to catch a flight
in a second so I probably have drop of
it I read a consulting firm out of
Phoenix I do IOT offline thing thanks
and if anybody's gonna be in New York on
Friday
half-sack New York I'm gonna be doing a
talk on surviving the apocalypse with
progressive web apps which sort of mix
of browser tech a little bit of DAT
stuff like that so I'll be at offline
yeah excellent
hella cool okay it's very nice let's see
we're just doing intros one more chance
for HSN to acknowledge their identity if
they come up you know who Joe do you
want to tell us quickly why you're
interested in offline and local stuff
hello everyone so I'm I'm part of the
final coin project I am mostly just I
mean I've heard you Terry I know this is
like a big part of you know one of your
passions and I've heard you mentioned it
a few times so I was just generally
curious it would have like a huge like
you know other reason for being
interested but I'm definitely really
curious think it's important coming so
that's great we love curious people
yeah I'm not I'm not making a lot of
stuff work offline these days but I'm
really fascinated by all these so that's
great thank you for taking the time to
introduce yourselves I think it's really
cool to see like the breadth of projects
that people are working on they're
interested in I'm going to hop over I'm
actually gonna paste the link to our
agenda one more time because I think it
doesn't show up for people who come
later so let's see what we have on there
we have a couple of kind of short
announcement type things and then we
will jump into Jana Jana says kind of
main part of this talk so first I will
just share slightly more officially what
I have been hinting at which is a flank
camp which is about offline first it is
not specific 2d web unlike this call
where we're really looking at it from
the perspective empty web offline camp
you'll find people who are really
excited about do you'll find people who
are doing more traditional like couch TV
couch TV stack etc but it's discussion
based all sort of unconference
picking topics as we go based on who's
there and amazing environment secretary
over the weekend we actually had to
reschedule it for a longest to September
because of a wildfire in Oregon and
luckily a lot of our folks were able to
stay through but we do have some empty
spots available so if anyone would like
to join us we'll be in Grants Pass
Oregon September 27th the 30th and I
will paste a link to the website in the
chat here so you can learn more and
obviously feel free to reach out to me
specifically if you have questions I'm
one of the organizers and we really
appreciate that the idea fest team and
protocol labs is sponsoring the event
this year along with so that's
awesome
Jessica let's go over to you for your
request
yeah so this is super quick but like I
said I'm part of the documentation and
developer user experience task force
over an IP FS LAN and as part of that
overall effort we are sort of
solidifying and putting together a
framework of reasons why people use IPS
or want to use IQ FS and how that aligns
which is sort of you know their
overarching goals on the things that we
are all each trying to achieve on our
own products and just as part of that we
want to make sure that we are adequately
acknowledging the special needs that
people who are focusing on offline
access need to consider so with that in
mind sometime over the next few weeks we
don't have the schedule put down
entirely agree would love to have a half
hour hour long depending on your
schedule phone call with any of you who
would like to have a conversation with
me and some of my team about some of the
research and organization work we've
been doing and just to make sure that we
are counting your needs adequately and
elegantly among all of that so the ask
in that is I'm gonna share a link in the
chat to a Google Form but then there's
also a link inside of the agenda I would
love it it's just just once your name
and address your email address so that I
can check in with you and do a little
bit of scheduling and then also this
anybody else you think might be
interested in having this conversation
with us please send that link to folks
thanks Nico I just saw your note out in
there but yeah anyone else you feel like
forwarding not only to would love to
have a chat and then really appreciate
your time and your thought thanks so
much guys thanks Jessica I think it's
really cool that we're thinking about
this this use case as we think about all
the all the ways that were serving
different parts of the ipfs audience all
right
okay so let's
shh-shh look at the clock
let's go with let's go with our our
Yanis topic now our big topic and then
we'll jump over to Nikko and
[Music]
so Yanis you can that if you want to
share you can grab a grab a hold of the
screen to share anything you want to
show us and then we'll spend a little
time to ask questions when you're done
yeah yeah hello again I'm trying to
share my screen I've got a quick set of
slides thingies and okay right so okay
so this is kind of project that came out
of our wall
sorry if it's too loud I have to have
the window open I'm in a hotel so it's a
bit loud sometimes and so this is part
of a project that came out of some of
our studies at Museo it's thought to be
the beginning of it was the general area
of edge computing so to speak which is
something that we've been looking at the
last few years which in a very quick
nutshell says that with IOT and all our
mobile devices that were not around a
few years ago now we see more usage of
whatever our devices are doing at the
edge of the network so you we want to
consume content at the edge of the
network we want to produce and publish
content straight from our mobile devices
the same is going to be the case when
IOT I mean more integrated and therefore
we need to have a way
to connect devices locally and made them
able to exchange content between them so
that's how we came up with data hope
which is kind of a first connectivity
part to the edge computing world and
effectively okay yeah well we figured
out that you know communicating globally
is possible with all the great protocols
and work that all the community has done
over the decades and it's quite easy to
connect to others are far away what has
not been done very very efficiently is
to communicate locally so when you want
to send something to someone sitting
next to you whether it's a mobile device
or an IOT sensor or whatever that is
then this is pretty much impossible you
have to ship whatever you have to the
other end of the planet into a
datacenter Google Drive whatever it is
Dropbox and then the person sitting next
to you need to pull that off again from
the other end of the planet so what we
want to have is actually a platform for
distributed at hoc data synchronization
so one device can publish things and the
other devices should synchronize and
pull this data locally so you can think
of that as a local shared virtual
storage that needs to work in
disconnected environments as well as
connected environments it doesn't make a
big difference so one big part of they'd
hope is a connectivity solution which
depending on what you want to build on
top I hope I mean it could be a library
or you know whether the name is going to
be its a connectivity solution that can
identify when one of the devices in the
surrounding area has got something
my device does not therefore in this
case he's going to connect and pull the
content needs to be synchronized between
devices and so in order to do so this
has been I mean in the academic world
this has been called opportunistic
networking or delayed learn networking
and it has been investigated each for
more than a decade possibly quite a bit
more it has not really been has not
really seen any usability studies or any
real applications that are doing these
things and therefore we thought that ok
one way of doing that is to have you
know an incentivized content propagation
platform where you can have a consensus
protocol that that is using some kind of
derivative of social capital and then be
able to reward users for what they're
doing for this disability for for
propagating in content at the mobile
domain so so roughly how it works at the
networking part is that we have SS like
the equivalent of SSID where you have in
a DSC DS what comes out of the Wi-Fi
access point and is instead of having a
random bit of strings you can have a
hash or the content name this goes back
to our studies which you know it's
pretty familiar in this group of people
of the content of the scible web or the
content addressable internet so instead
of just connecting to some device you
connect effectively to the content that
you want to get to synchronize with you
and the way it works I mean as well
there is its combination of Bluetooth
and Wi-Fi directs where there is right
where we have the Bluetooth beacon
advertisement where you can think of it
that
you take picture and you want to kind of
publish it in the local network and then
the other device that is scanning the
Bluetooth low-energy device that is
scanning not constantly but every
periodically every some time interval is
going to eventually identify the beacon
that you're you're beginning on the
other side and it's going to establish a
connection so the way that we do like a
little bit more technical detail the way
that we do that is that we have we used
a characteristic field of little
Bluetooth Low Energy protocol and there
we put we use bloom filters and these
bloom filter effectively you advertise
the content that you have whichever way
of naming you want to have it's hash
function or whatever it's going to be
and for the two devices they are going
to that the advertising device is going
to do that and the client device is
going to check that against its own
bloom filter and it's going to see that
there is a duck there because because it
doesn't have this content upon doing
that then there is a Wi-Fi direct
connection which is established between
the two and the content is effectively
there is a file transfer that is done
from one device to the other so what we
also have I mean as part of the reward
system which I'm not going to go into
detail right now is what we call it
proof of prestige which is a paper we
recently published earlier this year and
it's prophecies is a user proof of
useful work kind of protocol that is
building on top of prostate blockchains
and what we want to achieve with that is
to actually prove that two devices
connected so it's pretty difficult to
prove something so it's pretty difficult
to say that I have connected to some
other device
without cheating and you know without
spinning up like a thousand Androids
emojis on my laptop and saying that I
have actually contributed because look I
have transferred all these contents and
and we have what we call proof of
prestige is what is called progressive
mining which means that as users are
working are distributing content from
one to the other then you have naturally
distinct content distribution phrase
which is from one device to the next and
then to the next one to the next
yeah so this seized part of what this is
doing and okay I mean the overall thing
is quite easy to understand you you have
some if the recent obligation that is
building on top of this library then you
have then the application will have to
get some memory from the smartphone or
the IOT device or wire that is being B
then devices are moving in urban or
non-arable environments and when they
find someone through this filter
matching they connect opportunistically
and they share content and then there is
the reward for that so in doing that we
found out that there is very little
battery consumption we have as I'm going
to in a minute
we have an Android implementation of
that which is it consumes less than 10%
of the battery for much whole day and
there is no location tracking because
you know the whole point of that is to
enable local communication which means
that if we want to share something
locally then these days look old and you
know nothing is uploaded to central
servers if you want to share meeting
material nothing is going to be uploaded
to Google Drive or Dropbox or whatever
other thing and also there is no there
is no consumption of mobile data so for
place
we're mobile data is quite expensive
than this reading content in this way it
can be much more cost-efficient for
people so so there are a few use cases
that we we came up with I mean that the
main the main thing of that is not the
use cases themselves is not the
application then sells them the main
novelty is the networking library but
he's sitting underneath but we found out
that if you want to do is slide sharing
or meeting material in a meeting then
you end up in cases where you have to
ask for 10 different emails in order to
send something over email or get user
names of people's Dropbox account or
whatever other thing that are using and
then share it with us which is quite
impossible to do I mean it's quite
painful so instead what you can do if
you had these kind of library would be
that you have a local server chiral
space where everything is replicated
between people's devices and whoever is
interested in what being published is
being pulled transparently to their to
their phone or laptop or whatever other
things going to be different thing very
similarities the local social network
where you want to share some things from
from festival gathering protest whatever
and you can you can basically publish
content which other people are pulling
on their devices so yeah so we have we
have quite a few things done this hand
has been academic project for quite a
while and we have received some funding
for that so we have the device-to-device
productivity module it's working on
Android it must be DS on the
from the Google Playstore say if you
have two mobile devices you can download
and sync between the two you can create
a group and things between those two
devices it's quite stable it's not
always working about it's mostly working
there is we have logging thing back and
logging thing where we want to basically
see you know when connections it's for
debugging purposes basically very
security varies I think there is a Linux
application to connect all Apple devices
and what we a good idea that came up
quite recently too
we've seen the need for something like
that in Lippitt appear to have a
different kind of transport where things
can be shared locally without the need
to go through the whole of the internet
and that's one of the next steps we want
to take
yeah and seeing that he's possible
working together with people from
liquids be yeah and he's based on
actually a load of academic publications
and things like that and it's a
collection of all of that into one
library yeah and that's it thanks Janice
any feedback or ideas or yeah yeah it's
just gonna say let's take say give
ourselves a 10-minute cap and throw
questions at units or ideas related to
this Dwayne's asking in the chat if any
of this source code is open right so
it's not open right now that means stop
sharing
yeah it's not open right now but the
intention is to kind of make the code
look a little bit more like what it
should be and then say sorry mr. Chuck
messages it's a really cool project yeah
that's
super excited okay if I may have a
couple questions one have you looked at
briar another similar project that does
Bluetooth the Bluetooth communication
dad no prior bright briar like briar
patch yeah also an Android app okay and
a second question related to another
project have you looked at so there's a
fellow named mark ney down behind the
gun project it's a decentralized
database is sort of what I think most
people talk about but he he has
something he's working on called proof
of propagation which is also very
similar to I think what you're trying to
achieve with the file sharing going in
loops and things like that may be
something to look into
yeah if you can share the link here or
the Google Docs that would be great
maybe that my teammates I we're about
yeah I was it's probably it's funny how
many people will work on like we all are
working on some of the same faces we
overlap and don't know it and you've
probably got something unique about
proof of prestige and he's got something
unique about propagation they may have
some rhyme overlap there very cool so
I've got a few questions too so this
would work awesome for what I was
building and what I talked about last
time we met you talked about like a
little local social network that's
exactly what we're trying to build it
sounds like right now it's pretty much
something that you would need access to
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi direct for so
obviously you couldn't do that in a
browser but I'm assuming that we could
create some kind of apps that would act
like a wrapper or something like that
that could be using that anyway that was
cool
my question was um in your slides you
said that it used the SS IDs or was that
just an example
it's an example of what we want to do in
some cases by effectively what is what
we're using is the Bluetooth Low Energy
the characteristic field or whatever
that is called and then there is the gas
generic advertisement from the generic
of businessman their generic attribute
protocol that ease that's where actually
you odd for those things gotcha okay
yeah magic yeah I actually want to ask a
little bit about advertising the content
- so is it basically saying hey I have
all of these things or is it saying hey
I'm a client you can connect to me and
see what I have right so the main thing
the main thinking behind it is dance
devices should connect only when there
is something useful to be shared
otherwise it's waste of time on waste of
energy so the thing is that you
advertise the things that you want to
say hey I have got these things here and
then other people will see that and
connect other devices will see that and
connect so your advertising as a kind of
publisher and so is that an automatic
process like is the is the service doing
that or am i choosing what to advertise
it would depend it's this is very
application specific or what I thought
they say if it is okay let's do
something simple if if we're building
local social network then I take a
picture of something if I publish it in
the local application of my mobile
device then automatically this is
advertised to other people and it could
be a closed group of people it could be
an open group of people it doesn't
matter about that is also from that
point after it makes that first heart
there's this everybody that hot to also
say hey I have this content or David so
there is relaying a awesome very cool
and then this and the clients don't need
again that's application-specific but
they don't necessarily need to click and
say okay one day so okay I want to
connect to that device it should be
inspiring to the user but again it's an
application specific thing that yeah so
how about identity how do you know who
you got something from is it device
specific word is it like people have
some identity that they can share among
their devices good question I I don't
know it depends what you want to do with
it application specific as well I would
I would say yeah yeah so say if we'd be
something that you won't share with
everyone around then you don't even need
to have an identity I mean you you can
be anonymous it doesn't matter so it
doesn't like reference cooing what
device it got it from there's no history
is as far as like no idea I ideally not
idea you know in the base product or not
then okay there is an issue if you want
if your name is XYZ and you know you
claim to be X Y Z in the network then I
kind of have if we form a group between
us to share stuff I should be able to
say that someone else is not pretending
to be XYZ because I want to continue to
you I'm not sure how this can be done to
be honest interesting
how does it work across platform have
you been able to get it to work out
between iOS and Android or or are you
still like really far in development for
iOS
ya know iOS sees something that we have
looked at recently only a few months ago
and it's stealing yeah I'm not sure what
to progress by not much cool awesome
thanks for answering questions
any final questions the fur Yanis before
we move on I realized that I skipped
over something in our agenda which was I
specifically invited Molly and Arkady to
share if they had any reflections from
the webcam which I know they both went
to and maybe some of the others of you
were there as well because we didn't get
a chance to have either of them on last
night's call so I was wondering if the
two of you saw anything saw anything
shared there that's relevant to this
kind of offline or local space that you
wanted to just mention briefly so I'm a
little sad that Dietrich actually had to
drop before this because I think he
actually had quite a bit to say it
should have maybe kind of them to the
scheduler but I have a couple of things
that I wanted to bring up so I people
may have already seen this last month
but if you haven't Bertie de rty
technologies have a Bluetooth Low Energy
let p2p transport which sounds like it
may end up being something that the data
hop for example will be using so if
you're interested in that definitely
check them out I believe it's maybe is
open the repository has been opened
already and the other thing that I
wanted to mention quickly which is a
very general comment is that I've so I
was doing these kind of user interviews
with spokes and one of the questions was
so if you had like head of the magic one
question like if you was no objection to
realism or cost what is the one thing
that you really really want to have
working and offline first was a very
common answer and even when I push
people okay well something else they
would double down so just you know take
it as encouragement for for this focus
area yeah
that was a question about what they'd
like to see work better if with ipfs
specifically cool Thank You Molly
related oh okay I saw Nico at do webcam
so he might have seen even even more
things that were offline related he was
offline related person eyes there was
definitely some people who kind of came
came to camp thinking there was going to
be less good internet than there was it
was actually surprisingly good but
people were we're kind of coming
prepared there was an offline data swap
so you could kind of bring and share
data and someone brought well at least
had started working on I don't know if
you ever got it quite finished a an
offline capable I think it was it was a
package manager that I'm forgetting the
name of right now but it was for rust so
he's like crates cargo cargo thank you
it was cargo so it was an offline
version of cargo on top of IP FS so that
he could bring it offline and then use
it with with other people but they ended
up not needing to use it at the end
because we had such good internet that
people could continue hacking without it
but that was Shawn from the rust secure
skeleton community he like started
hacking on it just so that people could
use it if if we didn't have good Wi-Fi
so I thought that was super cool and
then I've actually been at web 3 here in
Berlin for the past week and there's
been a lot of really awesome people our
Wi-Fi is less less good ironically than
the Wi-Fi atom at D web camp and ipfs
camp so there's been been some amount of
like people talking about this for
example the the riot folks are looking
at having a peer-to-peer way of maybe
overland p2p of sending messages back
and forth so peer-to-peer riot chat
might be somewhere in our in our
upcoming future if we can bug matthew
hassan to actually make that happen we
should be super cool
oh I can also add a little bit
anecdotally about the network do you
have camp which was a mesh network
that's Benny Lau from Toronto mesh and a
whole bunch of volunteers had set up and
it worked really great it was doing I
think seven hops to the backhaul and it
was we were under like 150 milliseconds
it was really really nice so if you're
curious about that set up you can reach
out to that Benedict I think there
should be in for documentation going up
on the campsite soon but probably not
yet
so what was one question what was the
seven hope human change Oh sir so it was
so the site's was on the it was on the
Pacific coast quite far from any actual
networking equipment and there was
restrictions on building anything that
might compromise the aesthetics of the
the vistas so you can't put up anything
taller than the tree line basically so
we were shooting through gaps in the
trees to like from one Ridge to the next
and so there in the road I think seven
of those links and that had did not have
any issues the only problem was when
somebody unplugged Iraq and one of the
rims and said we lost like one leg of
the mesh but everything else was good I
actually part of the mesh team with been
that week that whole week
thank Arkady for for doing that okay but
please please validate my concise so
actually you don't have anything to add
to that but in regards to the the
Welcome I think one of the things that
started to come up is at least my
feeling was that there were like two
groups one were the ones that were more
focused on a more technical I don't I
don't know if I well there were some
people that were more technical and
focus on having technical discussions
and others that were more trying to look
for conversations that open the
opportunities like understand the
reality fathers connecting with like
there there were in Turkey did an
excellent job in well an excellent
effort in bringing people from all
around the world to spice up in a way
the conference to have more diversity
more voices more people from less more
challenged situations and I think that's
something that we colloquy should look
forward to and encouraged that's a in a
way and it would be great if that
happens more often like for example in
in in offline camp to have people from
rural places from other places inspire
you all to create solutions for the
khalsa yeah I totally agree it's always
been great to have perspectives of
people who have worked in so for example
we had someone at camp once who worked
at a refugee camp in Africa I forget
what country he was working in but often
there's a big problem with like the
travel costs of getting people who are
from those places and we more often have
folks who are based in the US but the
projects they're working on are there so
maybe they've traveled they're offline
camp actually moves around to different
locations so far we've just been in the
States in Europe it would be cool to
take it some more less you know more
remote places than that but it
definitely presents them those processes
I work in Africa so in this I work in
these places I go to the places that I'm
talking about so if you are interested
in exploring both bringing people or
getting the events to more remote areas
yeah I'm your man cool so I think the
last let me I'm gonna read this question
from Dietrich he can ask it again next
week if he doesn't like your answers but
I'm just gonna read this question and
then I'll let you drop answers in the
notes if you have any ideas for him he's
asking if anyone has pointers to systems
for secure and audited transport of
medical data using IP FS or something
like it
so if you have any ideas there and go
into meeting notes in the agenda section
you'll see the question from him you can
drop some suggestions under for him to
look at will give them a chance to
extend more on that next time
so Nico question for you I think I'm
just reviewing to see what else I forgot
that is to do so
Nico we have eight minutes left would
you like to talk about your project in
these eight minutes or would you like to
save it for a bigger time so on next
month's fall what do you feel like so we
have the luxury of having Nick here
actually I was going to talk about work
I am just a middleman so having Nick
here I think it's best for health will
use those eight minutes unless we show a
prototype or something yeah sounds good
Nick let me let's turn it over to you if
you have I don't know if you want
anything you can certainly steal control
of the screen if you have something you
want to show us so you can just check no
we haven't anything to show yet and Nick
has caught me off guard
so he will have to fill in the gaps so
we are I think provoked by deep web so
we were face we had some money from a PC
to address our situation in the Kalahari
where we have no connectivity to at all
we have a radio station there that it
hardly comes any distances 40 villages
like I said very small villages or stand
in between no major roads in between no
tar road for you you drive for about
four hours on the gravel and then you
get to drive another couple of hours
through the sand so what we wanted was a
mule system wasn't we weren't sure how
to do it we've got no electricity we
have a lot of challenges such as the
sand but also elephants extreme poverty
and Namibia is on the Development Index
as the country is about 5.5 which makes
it sort of a lower middle-income country
but the sand people are 3.5 so they
really struggle in a way that the rest
of the country doesn't struggle and we
still had only an internet Pinet
penetration of about 30 percent of the
population so even as a country level
we're not very good and then when it
comes to the sand it's just we don't
have anything them and we have them
people who are literate in the land and
literate in their stories in their
history but not literate in textual
textual systems and not particularly
familiar with technology after all they
don't have the money and they don't have
a connection so that's a little bit of
our context so then Nick and I sort of
brainstorm different ways we could do
this we started off thinking of some
very low fidelity type options just sort
of basic voice recorders and things and
then we move to the phone because it's
obviously the most ubiquitous device
even if you can't make a phone signal so
and then he was at D web and and then he
was at D web and he met lo Andrew lo
Andrew who's in Brazil and he is working
on scuttlebutt platform for indigenous
people there against their very
significant environmental concerns that
we have been watching on the news and
also couple of guys wanna marry guy and
another guy who is a supporter of Mary
Mary people who are also using
scuttlebutt for a cultural preservation
project much longer project so luckily
he was able to integrate these people to
help us create a proof of concept which
is a audio social media system by which
through a series of sort of naturalistic
movements for example conservation
vehicle goes out from their small town
every so often to fix bore holes to help
if there's a massive emergency of tho
help several days to get to people and
then some other movements like Rangers
who work for you know tracking animal
numbers because it's a an area of
conserved wildlife so there are a few
movements between villages and people
are very used to walking very long way
like you know somebody object will walk
forty seven fifty kilometers in a in a
day without thinking about it and so we
hope for a month a system but that
enables people to across the course of
about two weeks transfer messages from
one of the 40 villages to other 40
villages and one of the other
portability so we're using it kind of
like a radio at the moment we don't the
village
system when they get them in November
and with their won't have personal
accounts this is not this is very it's
not a bad way to start there because of
this very egalitarian society so perhaps
just I'll end on on giving this little
inside of them when we were there a
couple of weeks ago explain the
technology it is some sort of low
fidelity prototyping and some
role-playing and some acting and people
talk about their needs and so their
needs can be something like I haven't
heard from my family member who lives in
is married somewhere else for for many
months or I don't know about a school
closing because whether it's because it
just can't get to it so they send the
kids off very long walk to school where
they board and then the kids will get
there and the schools closed or they
would like to get more news from the
radio or they just like to share their
cultural information that's very
important for them okay so I get a nice
round heads-up from Nick oh that says
one minute so I'm going to pass over to
Nick Oh to fill in things that I forgot
Thank You Nick this business has it has
not been coordinated so it's the beauty
of working with people that you resonate
with so just to fill in the blanks in
the technical aspect we are using
security Olivette as the platform for
doing this pigeon network approach like
a pass stolen forward a situation where
the device is move around and carry
messages from one village to the other
and there is a specific energy put in
you using digital experience because
these are communities that don't have
much another literacy or no literacy at
all so the efforts in making the
platform usable and also owned by them
the decease the other thing the platform
is owned by the communities and the last
thing that I want to add is that this is
a collective effort in between initial
communities that are far apart but close
in need this initiative is being lived
by by Nick's team and the need of the
Sun people but also is a collaboration
from Lou Andrew from mini-mesh in Brazil
that I put the link to one rose scholar
watt identity there in the chat and also
from Ben from I don't remember which
indigenous community in New Zealand from
mix from scholar watt from New Zealand
from Janice to mesh community radio from
India and there are a few other
initiatives that will be joining shortly
because this is Annie that was that is
felt and and the different actors are
recognizing their own felt need in
needs of the Sun community and from my
side is just about inviting you all to
get closer to the communities and count
us to support you in that process very
cool
soon Nico and Nick I just dropped some
notes in the agenda as you were talking
but I'm sure I miss things or miss type
things so please feel free to edit those
or add links if they're like ways people
could be healthy now and somewhere they
could go to learn more homey awesome
Arkady
you added two links to the document
about upcoming events do you want to
quickly mention that yes so there's two
events that I think might be of
relevance to the people here most like
technologically and I think politically
so there is our networks in Toronto on
the 20th 24th approximately of 22 22nd
that's the wrong link it will fix that
and there is radical networks in New
York on the 18th or 20th of October and
I think both of them focus on a lot of
community and that's work stuff and they
are quite affordable they're under $100
I think possibly even under 50 so if
you're around come check them out son
thank you all right
so sorry with those links posted on the
document the event links yeah if you
scroll down towards the bottom of the
agenda document they're in there and I'm
trying to copy things from the chat over
to that document as I go to try to make
sure we don't miss anything
um awesome I feel like there would be a
lot more to dig into about Nico and
Nick's project but this is really cool
to hear so if you think you want to do
it like a longer talk or dig into some
of the technical details that would be
interesting to people we could schedule
you for the September call if either of
you are interested in doing that you let
me know what sounds good
um and yes
October yes we can make it correct over
um it's great to see everybody I think
it's really fun to see all this stuff
and I'm looking for topics for September
so if any of you have projects you're
working on that you want to share with
us in more detail it's fun to hear the
quick tidbits as people introduce
themselves but if any of you would like
to introduce us in more depth to this of
one of the projects you're working on
that would be really cool so feel free
to reach out to me um yeah and I will
see you I will double check the dates
and post a new issue um in our github so
the best thing for you to do if you want
to make sure you don't miss any meetings
is to watch the github repo for this
this interest group and we post an issue
there for each of the upcoming calls and
also some you know discussion topics or
announcements of related events or other
stuff that this met group might want to
work on together and there is issues and
then I tagged frequent people who come
when I announce the times and this call
is also on the ipfs community calendar
if you haven't seen that so you'll see
that also an issue link anything else
before we go
all right thanks everybody we will see
you next month or some of you I'll see
well that is also next month
yes this call is probably before the
event